resumption of the session
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 17 december 1999 , and i would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period .
although , as you will have seen , the dreaded ' millennium bug ' failed to materialise , still the people in a number of countries suffered a series of natural disasters that truly were dreadful .
you have requested a debate on this subject in the course of the next few days , during this part-session .
please rise , then , for this minute ' s silence .
( the house rose and observed a minute ' s silence )
madam president , on a point of order .
you will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in sri lanka .
one of the people assassinated very recently in sri lanka was mr kumar ponnambalam , who had visited the european parliament just a few months ago .
yes , mr evans , i feel an initiative of the type you have just suggested would be entirely appropriate .
if the house agrees , i shall do as mr evans has suggested .
madam president , on a point of order .
i would like your advice about rule 143 concerning inadmissibility .
my question relates to something that will come up on thursday and which i will then raise again .
it says that this should be done despite the principle of relative stability .
i believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and a proposal to subvert it would be legally inadmissible .
i want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report , not a legislative proposal , and whether that is something i can competently do on thursday .
that is precisely the time when you may , if you wish , raise this question , i.e. on thursday prior to the start of the presentation of the report .
this is all in accordance with the principles that we have always upheld .
thank you , mr segni , i shall do so gladly .
indeed , it is quite in keeping with the positions this house has always adopted .
madam president , i should like to draw your attention to a case in which this parliament has consistently shown an interest .
it is the case of alexander nikitin .
all of us here are pleased that the courts have acquitted him and made it clear that in russia , too , access to environmental information is a constitutional right .
now , however , he is to go before the courts once more because the public prosecutor is appealing .
yes , mrs schroedter , i shall be pleased to look into the facts of this case when i have received your letter .
but , madam president , my personal request has not been met .
i would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a dutch channel as well .
mrs plooij-van gorsel , i can tell you that this matter is on the agenda for the quaestors ' meeting on wednesday .
it will , i hope , be examined in a positive light .
mrs lynne , you are quite right and i shall check whether this has actually not been done .
i shall also refer the matter to the college of quaestors , and i am certain that they will be keen to ensure that we comply with the regulations we ourselves vote on .
madam president , mrs díez gonzález and i had tabled questions on certain opinions of the vice-president , mrs de palacio , which appeared in a spanish newspaper .
the competent services have not included them in the agenda on the grounds that they had been answered in a previous part-session .
i would ask that they reconsider , since this is not the case .
the questions answered previously referred to mrs de palacio ' s intervention , on another occasion , and not to these comments which appeared in the abc newspaper on 18 november .
mr berenguer fuster , we shall check all this .
i admit that , at present , the matter seems to be somewhat confused .
we shall therefore look into it properly to ensure that everything is as it should be .
in any event , this question is not presently included among the requests for topical and urgent debate on thursday .
agenda
the next item is the verification of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 13 january pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
no amendments have been proposed relating to monday and tuesday .
relating to wednesday :
the group of the party of european socialists requests that a commission statement be included on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the administrative reform of the commission .
i would like mr barón crespo , who made the request , to speak to propose it . that is , if he so wishes , of course .
then we shall follow the usual procedure , hearing one speaker in favour and one against .
this commitment is important because the commission is a body with a monopoly of initiative in accordance with the treaties and , therefore , basically dictates this parliament ' s political and legislative activity for the next five years .
there has therefore been enough time for the commission to prepare its programme and for us to become familiar with it and explain it to our citizens .
to this end , i would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 september , which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible .
according to its president , it is in a position to do so .
therefore , madam president , i would ask you to request that the commission express its opinion on this issue and that we then proceed to the vote .
( applause from the pse group )
i propose that we vote on the request of the group of the party of european socialists that the commission statement on its strategic objectives should be reinstated .
( parliament rejected the request ) president .
still on the subject of wednesday ' s sitting , i have another proposal regarding the oral question on capital tax .
the ppe-de group is requesting that this item be taken off the agenda .
is there a member who wishes to speak on behalf of this group to propose this ?
madam president , i can hear a ripple of laughter from the socialists .
i do not know whether this information is correct , but the ppe-de group would , in any case , be grateful if this item were removed because parliament has addressed this issue several times already .
decisions have also been adopted against a tax of this kind .
that is why my group moves that this item be taken off the agenda .
thank you , mr poettering .
we shall now hear mr wurtz speaking against this request .
madam president , i would firstly like to point out mr poettering ' s lack of logic .
it is not a lot to ask .
we shall proceed to vote on the ppe-de group ' s request that the oral question regarding the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda .
( parliament rejected the request , with 164 votes for , 166 votes against and 7 abstentions )
madam president , i would like to thank mr poettering for advertising this debate .
thank you very much .
madam president , has my vote been counted ?
i was unable to vote electronically , since i do not have a card .
my vote was " in favour " .
indeed , if we add the two members who have declared themselves , then the result of the vote would be ....
that did not happen .
i would appreciate it if , on the close of this item of business , i might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my group .
this is an important matter .
it would be useful for the record of the house to state how people perceive what we have just done in the light of their own political analysis .
madam president , i do not wish to reopen the debate , but i had also asked for the floor , to comment on mr barón crespo 's motion .
you did not call me either .
i regret this , but the vote has already been taken and the decision is made so let us leave the matter there .
i am terribly sorry , mr hänsch and mr cox . i did not see you asking to speak .
even so , i think the positions are quite clear and they shall be entered in the minutes .
when we adopt the minutes for today ' s sitting tomorrow , then any members who think the positions have not been explained clearly enough may ask for amendments .
this seems to me to be a workable solution .
of course , the minutes for tomorrow ' s sitting will take into account any additional explanations .
i think this is a better solution than proceeding now to extremely time-consuming explanations of votes .
mr cox , mr hänsch , would this be acceptable to you ?
madam president , if the vote records correctly how my group voted i shall not , and cannot , object to that .
if your ruling is that i cannot give an explanation of vote , i accept that but with reservations .
we shall pay particular attention to the wording of the minutes , as we always do , of course .
if they do not properly reflect the positions adopted , then we may correct them , if necessary .
( the order of business was adopted thus amended )
safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods
all of this is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore to be greatly welcomed .
our amendments from the first reading have , i believe , been taken into account very satisfactorily .
the one unanimously adopted amendment of the committee on regional policy and transport , which concerns the timetable for implementing the directive , is something which i would urge you to support .
i would urge you to endorse this .
the renovation project , which lasted for months , cut off this important route between the north and south of europe .
the traffic which had to be diverted because of this stretched the patience of many thousands of people in the eu to the limit .
in fact , all hell broke loose in some municipalities in my province .
prevention has to be our answer to disasters of this kind and this draft directive is an important step towards well-trained safety advisers being available , so that the right action is taken in good time .
all the same , we must not content ourselves with enacting european law to ensure greater safety .
we also need to follow this up and make sure that our rules are transposed by the member states in good time and - even more importantly - we need to ensure that they are also applied afterwards .
please let this not be yet another sector where we subsequently have to lament the lack of enforcement .
madam president , first of all i should like to thank mr koch for his report which has , at its heart , the issue of transport safety .
the report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road , rail and inland waterway .
i congratulate him on his excellent report .
my group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the european union as safe as possible .
when it comes to safety my group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety .
we still have a lot of work to do in this area as recent events have proved .
madam president , the importance of transport safety is highlighted on a regular basis in this parliament and rightly so .
the ever increasing volume of goods passing through europe entails all kinds of risks , known and unknown , for employees and the social environment .
those having to deal with these risks should therefore meet stringent requirements .
the relevant standards which have been laid down in another directive , 95 / 35 / ec , seem sufficiently adequate to advise people in a responsible manner on the organisation of the transport of dangerous goods .
this , however , does not seem feasible .
finally , the amendment tabled by the rapporteur is perfectly logical and i can , therefore , give it my wholehearted support .
mr president , commissioner , i should first like to congratulate mr koch on his reports which , though technical , are nonetheless of very great significance for safety .
i should like to make just a few comments .
considering that it is only today that we are dealing with a commission proposal first made on 19 march 1998 , even though parliament responded relatively quickly , this time lag is a little too long .
this is not just the fault of the commission , but i believe that we need to take action more quickly so as to achieve harmonisation in this area as well .
my second point has already been mentioned : it concerns the minimum standards .
in principle , i believe that in many cases where transport is concerned we should be working towards increased flexibility and country-specific rules .
however , when it comes to safety , i am rather sceptical because safety in sweden , for example , is in principle no different from safety in germany , italy or austria .
i can live with these minimum standards , but i would ask the commission to monitor the situation very carefully .
should flexibility of this kind result in there being inadequate rules in some countries then we should work towards greater harmonisation .
my third point has also been mentioned already .
as you know , like mr rack , i come from a transit country , where this issue plays a particularly important role .
we do not want to make the conditions of competition worse for some countries unilaterally and improve them for countries such as austria or other transit countries .
but i believe that we should do all we can to keep the transport of dangerous goods to a minimum , in all countries , whether they are transit countries or not .
very briefly , i would like to thank the various members for their interventions and to tell you that safety is one of the commission ' s priorities in the field of transport .
as mr simpson has said very correctly , this is a process which we can never take for granted or regard as having come to an end .
the process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day .
in one of the worst accidents to have occurred recently , the goods being transported were not dangerous in themselves .
margarine and a few kilos of paint which , in principle , do not present risks , led to a genuine disaster .
therefore , we will have to see how the requirements guaranteeing the maximum degree of safety can be further improved .
finally , i would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport .
but i would like to say that safety is a priority objective for the commission .
i would like to repeat my appreciation to all the speakers and especially to the rapporteur , mr koch .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
transport of dangerous goods by road
delays in the cen ' s work are now making it difficult to apply this very directive .
in particular , annexes cannot be adapted to take account of technical and industrial developments .
i regret this since we are having to take action because others have not done their job .
in this respect , i accept this proposal to amend directive 94 / 55 / ec which has been tabled for discussion today .
the amendment to the directive on today 's agenda does not therefore affect the existing harmonisation of the transport of dangerous goods in the community .
the amendment to the directive is consequently in full accordance with the principle of subsidiarity ; the member states obtain more powers .
the commission decides whether the member states may impose certain rules of their own .
in so doing , it is supported by a committee of experts on the transport of dangerous goods under the regulatory procedure .
the procedures for the exercise of these implementing powers conferred on the commission were laid down afresh in the council decision of june 1999 .
the proposal to be discussed today , to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road , dates from may 1999 , however , and could not therefore take account of the latest comitology procedure .
two of the amendments tabled and adopted unanimously by the committee relate precisely to this amended comitology procedure .
in addition , the need for greater transparency has been pointed out .
i do realise that this is only a small step towards increased transport safety , but i would ask you to endorse this report .
mr president , colleagues , a happy new year and millennium to you all .
i am speaking for the first time in this plenary part-session , so this is quite exciting for me , a little like first love , although that did last longer than two minutes .
i would like to briefly comment on the commission ' s proposal to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road .
the commission ' s proposal , however , does not take account of all the facts , such as the cold climate that prevails in the northern regions .
consequently , i have tabled some amendments to mr koch ' s intrinsically excellent report , which have been adopted by our committee .
my amendments concern the frost-resistance ratings for tankers carrying these dangerous goods .
according to the commission ' s proposal -20ºc would have been sufficient . on the shores of the mediterranean , it is hard to imagine that in lapland temperatures can fall considerably lower than that .
there is support for the eu in lapland also , so let us remember them .
i have thus proposed that the frost rating be lowered to -40ºc .
this would be necessary to keep safety standards at the level they were in northern regions previously .
i hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow ' s vote .
mr president , with your permission i should like to begin by expressing my admiration for the way in which you executed the quick changeover of the chairmanship just now during the debate .
i thought that it was quite superb .
this directive is a contribution to this .
what we are doing today is essentially a nuisance .
mr president , the report we are discussing here does not , in itself , entail any major changes .
most of the proposed amendments are of a purely technical nature .
very large quantities of dangerous goods are transported around the eu , both on roads and railways and by sea .
this makes it necessary to have proper rules governing transport of this kind .
in area after area , we are now obtaining common minimum regulations for the member states .
this is extraordinarily positive , and there is cause to thank the rapporteur , mr koch , for the work he has put in on this issue .
this is also important where the prerequisites for the internal market are concerned .
i should like to conclude by commenting on a third matter which is also of significance , namely an amendment tabled by member of parliament , mr ari vatanen .
in many ways , the prerequisites differ from one member state to another .
by approving this amendment , we take account of the fact that it can be very cold in the northern parts of the european union .
this makes it necessary to also take account of the ways in which materials and packaging are affected by cold of this kind .
it is good that , in establishing the present regulations , we can also be flexible .
i hope that the commission is able to accept the present amendment .
the reason mr koch produced his sound report was because the work in the cen and within the united nations economic commission was proceeding none too expeditiously .
for one thing is clear : even if we come to an excellent arrangement within the european union , traffic does not stop at our borders , it goes beyond them .
hence there is certainly every reason to introduce more far-reaching regional provisions .
mr president , i would once again like to congratulate mr koch on his magnificent work on this other report , which in a way supplements the debate which we held in october on rail transport .
we all regret that the european committee for standardisation ( cen ) has not been able , in the required time , to carry out the amendment of the provisions necessary for the required harmonisation within the european union .
this debate and the amendment of the directive currently in force allow us to incorporate differentiating elements which demonstrate the diversity of this europe of ours .
a moment ago , mr vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures , not of 20 degrees below zero , but of 40 degrees below zero .
the commission accepts all of the contributions of the parliamentary committee and the rapporteur , mr koch , which are contained in the various amendments , specifically four .
we therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
structural funds - cohesion fund coordination
a major part of wales , as you know , has been granted objective 1 status under the structural funds programme .
it is quite clear that many people within wales are looking to the european structural funds programme to alleviate some of the great difficulties that we undoubtedly face .
we have seen poverty growing in wales ; and growing still further since 1997 .
we have seen the gap between rich and poor widen .
we are looking , therefore , within the structural funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the principality .
